docs: Add an article to enable faster single-targetframework builds in VS 2022 (#11126)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/guides/solution-building-single-targetframework.md

---
uid: Build.Solution.TargetFramework-override
---
# Adjust an Uno Solution for a faster build with Visual Studio 2022

> The Uno Platform template provides a cross-targeted Class library which includes multiple target frameworks. While building with the command line `dotnet build -f net7.0-ios` does only build the application's head and the class library for `net7.0-ios`, Visual Studio builds all the target frameworks, [regardless of the project head's target framework](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Building-a-cross-targeted-project-with-m/651372).

Reviewer: This wasn't an issue with the shared project approach right?

Author: It wasn't indeed. At this point, there are advantages and disadvantages on both techniques, but the class library gives more advantages at this point.

Considering that during development, it is common to work on a single platform at a given time, here's a suggested set of modification that can be performed on the solution to restrict the active build platform:

1. Let's create a set of solution filters to ensure that individual project heads can be loaded:

    1. Create a new app template with **iOS**, **Android**, **WebAssembly** and **Windows** targets   selected.
    1. Right click on the **.Mobile** and **.Wasm** projects and select **Unload Project**
    1. On the top level Solution node, right click to select **Save As Solution Filter**, name the    filter **MyApp-Windows-Only.slnf**

> 

Reviewer: Looks unintentionally empty line.

```suggestion
```

    1. Right click on the **Mobile** project, select **Reload Project**
    1. Unload the **.Windows** project, then save a new solution filter called **MyApp-Mobile-    Only.slnf**
    1. Repeat the operation with the **.Wasm** project, with a solution filter called **MyApp-Wasm-Only.slnf**

    These solution filters will prevent Visual Studio to restore NuGet packages for TargetFrameworks that will be ignored by the configuration done below.

> 1. Now next to the solution file, create a file named `targetframework-override.props`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now, next to the solution file, create a file named `targetframework-override.props`:
```

>     ```xml

Reviewer: Wondering if we should just this to be in `Directory.Build.targets` instead of `targetframework-override.props`, and then avoid referencing this in all other projects.

Author: We'd need to change the PropertyGroup that defines the TargetFrameworks to be ignored, then. It also works, but that group must be be doing just this.

Discoverability wise, I think it feels more visible to add an explicit import.

    <Project>
        <Import Project="solution-config.props" Condition="exists('solution-config.props')" />

        <!-- Override the TargetFrameworks list with the one specified in MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride -->
        <PropertyGroup Condition="'$(MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride)'!=''">
            <TargetFrameworks>$(MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride)</TargetFrameworks>
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>

>    ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
   ```

~~~

1. Also next to the solution file, create a file named `solution-config.props.sample`:

    ```xml
    <Project>
        <PropertyGroup>
            <!--
            Uncomment the following line to enable single target framework builds
            in order to get faster performance when debugging for a single platform.

            Once this file is modified, use the appropriate solution filter to avoid
            NuGet restore issues.

            Available target frameworks can be found in the project heads of your solution.
            -->
            <!-- <MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride>net7.0-ios</MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride> -->
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>

>     ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
    ```

~~~

1. Next, in all projects of the solution which are cross-targeted (with multiple TargetFrameworks values), add the following lines right after the `PropertyGroup` which defines `<TargetFrameworks>`:

    ```xml
    <!-- Import the TargetFramework override configuration -->
    <Import Project="../../targetframework-override.props" />
    ```
    The file should then look like this:

>     ```xml

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
    ```

    The file should then look like this:

    ```xml
~~~

    <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
        <PropertyGroup>
            <TargetFrameworks>net7.0-windows10.0.18362;net7.0;net7.0-ios;net7.0-android</TargetFrameworks>
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
    <!-- Import the TargetFramework override configuration -->
    <Import Project="../../targetframework-override.props" />

>     ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
    ```

~~~

    > [!NOTE]

>     > If the template is created with `dotnet new`, the path will instead be `../targetframework-override.props`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > If the template is created with `dotnet new`, the path will instead be `../targetframework-override.props`

```

1. Create a copy of the file `solution-config.props.sample` next to itself, and name it `solution-config.props`
1. If using git, add this specific file to the `.gitignore` so it never gets committed. This way, each developer can keep their own version of the file without corrupting the repository.
1. Commit your changes to the repository.

At this point, your solution is ready for single-TargetFramework use.

> For example, to work on `net7.0-ios`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to work on `net7.0-ios`:

```

---
uid: Build.Solution.TargetFramework-override
---

> # Adjust an Uno Solution for a faster build with Visual Studio 2022
> 
> The Uno Platform template provides a cross-targeted Class library which includes multiple target frameworks. While building with the command line `dotnet build -f net7.0-ios` does only build the application's head and the class library for `net7.0-ios`, Visual Studio builds all the target frameworks, [regardless of the project head's target framework](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Building-a-cross-targeted-project-with-m/651372).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Adjust an Uno Solution for a faster build with Visual Studio 2022

The Uno Platform template provides a cross-targeted Class library that includes multiple target frameworks. While building with the command line `dotnet build -f net7.0-ios` only builds the application's head and the class library for `net7.0-ios`, Visual Studio builds all the target frameworks, [regardless of the project head's target framework](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/Building-a-cross-targeted-project-with-m/651372).
```

> Considering that during development, it is common to work on a single platform at a given time, here's a suggested set of modification that can be performed on the solution to restrict the active build platform:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Considering that during development, it is common to work on a single platform at a given time, here's a suggested set of modifications that can be performed on the solution to restrict the active build platform:
```

1. Let's create a set of solution filters to ensure that individual project heads can be loaded:

    1. Create a new app template with **iOS**, **Android**, **WebAssembly** and **Windows** targets   selected.
    1. Right click on the **.Mobile** and **.Wasm** projects and select **Unload Project**

>     1. On the top level Solution node, right click to select **Save As Solution Filter**, name the    filter **MyApp-Windows-Only.slnf**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. On the top level Solution node, right-click to select **Save As Solution Filter**, name the    filter **MyApp-Windows-Only.slnf**
```

>     1. Right click on the **Mobile** project, select **Reload Project**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Right-click on the **Mobile** project, select **Reload Project**
```

>     1. Unload the **.Windows** project, then save a new solution filter called **MyApp-Mobile-    Only.slnf**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Unload the **.Windows** project, then save a new solution filter called **MyApp-Mobile-Only.slnf**
```

    1. Repeat the operation with the **.Wasm** project, with a solution filter called **MyApp-Wasm-Only.slnf**

    These solution filters will prevent Visual Studio to restore NuGet packages for TargetFrameworks that will be ignored by the configuration done below.

1. Now, next to the solution file, create a file named `targetframework-override.props`:

    ```xml
    <Project>
        <Import Project="solution-config.props" Condition="exists('solution-config.props')" />

        <!-- Override the TargetFrameworks list with the one specified in MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride -->
        <PropertyGroup Condition="'$(MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride)'!=''">
            <TargetFrameworks>$(MyAppTargetFrameworkOverride)</TargetFrameworks>
        </PropertyGroup>
    </Project>
   ```

1. Also next to the solution file, create a file named `solution-config.props.sample`:

    ```xml
    <Project>
        <PropertyGroup>
            <!--

>             Uncomment the following line to enable single target framework builds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Uncomment the following line to enable single-target framework builds
```
